
Ingredients:

~ 2-3 Tbsp cooking oil / butter
1 tsp cumin
~ 1/2 a bulb garlic
1 habanero pepper
1 medium onion
1-1.5  pounds 80% ground beef (not lean or with extra fat, it will mess up the spicing)
1/3 cup (30 grams) garam masala (Deep brand is the only one I find worthwhile)
1-1.5 tsp salt (I like kosher salt)
~40 oz tomato sauce (1 ~32oz + 1 ~8oz can) (I like Safeway house brand best) (more if you're using beans)

Serve With:

bread
sour cream
grated cheddar
noodles
green onions
etc.


Equipment:

pairing knife
chef's knife
cutting board
large pot you can saute in, with lid (I use a heavy cast iron pot)
stirring stick
can opener
measuring cups if you're a chump
large spoon
measuring spoons

Optional:

table knife (if using butter)
disposable gloves
2 small ingredient bowls


Directions:

Peel, trim, and finely chop the garlic. Remove stem and finely chop the habanero pepper. Set aside.

Peel and chop the onion, set aside separately.

Heat pot on medium-high, add ~1/4 stick butter. Add cumin, if the oil is hot enough it should sizzle on contact. (You can test with a single cumin seed.)

Immediately add the garlic and pepper. Cook, stirring ~30-60 seconds.

Add the onion. Maybe lower the heat. Stir constantly for an hour until onion is transparent. Yes. Properly caramelizing might also work but I have less experience with that.

Add the ground beef, break it up and stir it as it goes in. Put the heat back to medium-high if you'd lowered it.

If you don't trust yourself to know when the meat is done, cook the meat till completely done then stir in the garam masala. Add half at a time, stirring ~1 minute till incorporated.

Advanced mode is cooking ground beef till it goes from raw red to undercooked pink, then adding the garam masala (which will make it impossible to tell by color when it's done) and trusting yourself to know how much longer it needs to cook.

I add the garam masala by getting a large spoon from my drawer (not the huge kind you only have one of the large kind you have many of) and adding two overflowing scoops one at a time stirring ~1 minute till absorbed, adjusting till it looks right.

Add salt toward the end of cooking the meat or with the sauce.

Add the tomato sauce. I add the big can first than small cans, usually only one, till the texture "looks right" as determined by scooping some up and pouring it back in.

Stir til the tomato sauce goes from bright red to dull, slightly brown red (when it combines with the fat) then turn to low and cover.

Cook on low for an hour, stirring every ~20 minutes. (A little bubbling is fine, if it's popping or the top is watery while the bottom is packed with solids, it's too hot.)

I taste test with a spoon ~5 min away from the last timer if I remember.

Slightly under done is better than over done.

The end result should be not spicy at all, the ingredients will have sacrificed themselves for the greater good and it will not taste like most of the individual ingredients as much as a combined whole.


I serve it with bread when fresh, the leftovers seem particularly good over pasta with sour cream. Having it with rice or potatoes should be fine. Sour cream and grated cheddar are good additions.
